# Not enough Data to be Fair? Evaluating Fairness Implications of Data Scarcity Solutions

Repository for the paper "Not enough Data to be Fair? Evaluating Fairness Implications of Data Scarcity Solutions" providing the required code to evaluate the fairness of different data scarcity solutions.

## Description
This study explores the implications of data scarcity on fairness in machine learning, specifically in consumer credit interest rate prediction. We develop a comprehensive taxonomy of Data Scarcity Solutions (DSS) by analyzing academic literature, data science competitions, and practical implementations. We identify six distinct DSS clusters: Data Extension, Pre-Training, Public Data Inclusion, Data Sharing, Federated Learning, and Active Learning & Pseudo Labeling. Our evaluation shows that most DSS enhance both performance and fairness, with minimal negative correlation between the two. Notably, approaches incorporating external or synthetic data significantly improve fairness. This research contributes to understanding DSS beyond algorithmic performance, providing a framework for evaluating their societal impact. Future research should extend these findings across diverse datasets and applications to enhance generalizability and practical implementation. 

## Getting Started

### Dependencies

* Python 3.9

### Installing

* After downloading the repository, install the required packages by running the following command in the terminal:
``` 
pip install requirements -r requirements.txt
```

## Downloading Data
To have the necessary data for the empirical evaluation it needs to be downloaded from the following sources:

* **Census:** https://data.census.gov/table/ACSDT5Y2022.B02001?g=010XX00US$8600000 > ./data/raw/census
* **Economy:** https://data.worldbank.org/country/US > ./data/raw/economy
* **Housing:** https://www.fhfa.gov/DataTools/Downloads/Pages/House-Price-Index-Datasets.aspx > ./data/raw/housing
* **Lending Club:** https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/wordsforthewise/lending-club > ./data/raw/lendingClub

## Performing Preprocessing
To combine the multiple data sources neede for our evaluation the ./data/preprocessing.py script needs to get executed.

## Running Data Scarcity Solutions
To get the results for each individual DSS as well as the baseline the corresponding files ({DSS}.py) need to be run.

## Analysing Results
After all individual DSS scripts have been completed successfully the final comparison can be generated by running the main.py file.

